believers are always and inexorably
the victims of their beliefs
i don't ask you to have sympathy for
them
neo-nazis are the hardest people
to sympathize with in the world i just
say to you
straight they are
like all of us the victims of their
beliefs and of course the sad fact is
they fasten on to these beliefs because
they make them feel
powerful important special
and with time it is those beliefs
that start to fasten their grip upon
the believers this young man
some of you have met him some of you met
him eight years ago
at the woodstock fruit festival dorian
ryder met him
freely met him some of you will remember
his youtube channel
simply vegan he became a neo-nazi
note the difference in style of dress
this was his earlier period of being a
suit and tie wearing devotee of julius
evilla
already four years ago now and then oh
there's another
change in fashion
he's become a green camouflage-wearing
bible-invoking self-styled redneck
but on some level we still know no
matter how much he may engage in
cosplay to try to imitate other members
of his chosen ideology
he still is the same man
who went to do woofing in hawaii
and attended the woodstock fruit
festival he's still the same
university educated guy who chose to
dissimulate
this phony redneck right wing aesthetic
in the same way that he dissimulated
the genteel appearance
of a traditional italian fascist
before in the next few minutes of this
video i'm gonna ask you some tough
questions
about freely the banana girl and her
role in all this
but she knew this kid she knew
jamie learty have you ever seen a
youtube video
in which freely was reaching out to this
kid
can you remember a youtube video in
which she was reaching out to anyone
like this
because you all know he wasn't the only
one as you're about to hear in just a
few minutes
there are reasons why it's so common
whether the reasons for it are
considered shallow
or profound he's not the only example of
someone
for whom veganism was a gateway drug
to the alt-right and the alt-right was a
gateway drug
to outright neo-nazism and fascism
there are reasons for that let's treat
as
shallow what is shallow and let's take
seriously
let's address with all due profundity
the aspects of this problem
that are profound there has never been
any reason to think that freely is left
wing
the fact that she's the type of person
who can convince herself that like
shampoo is a government conspiracy or
that
toothpaste is a government conspiracy or
that everything that's taught
in you know the colleges of dietetics
and nutrition other products of
government conspiracy
that kind of conspiratorial thinking is
you know kind of you know inevitably
electably inherently
right-wing it tends to draw people over
to the far right
not to the far left and people who are
now shocked and horrified by hearing
freely talk against black lives matter
in this way
can you remember any kind of contrast
from her political past
can you remember her expressing sympathy
for
australia's indigenous people indigenous
people in canada united states
can you remember her expressing any
interest in say
the politics of africa can you remember
during her years of living in thailand
part-time if not full-time she was in
thailand for many months of the year all
the time
do you remember ever expressing any
interest in the plight of the poor and
the downtrodden let alone
ethnic minorities migrants refugees you
know
there were really many opportunities for
freely to take some kind of moral
ethical stand
on many many different humanitarian
left-wing issues and she never once has
dipped a toe
into any of those places so yes there
always were grounds to suspect that she
was a bit more
right wing than people presumed her to
be
simply because she was vegan and
propounded a vegan diet book
i'm going to start this video off with a
quote henry ford once said
it is well enough that the people of the
nation do not understand our banking and
monetary system
for if they did i believe there would be
a revolution before tomorrow morning
[Music]
[Applause]
this just means less freedom for us
you gotta get this through your head
they're taking away our freedom
they're dividing us through this
mainstream narrative
and then they're conquering us and who
are they
that's what i want you to research and
educate yourself
who's behind the curtain with these big
banks who's behind the curtain with
these big banks
the elite minority look into the
families behind this
look into the history have you ever had
the feeling that everything you thought
you knew is a lie
everything from history science
government banking
money law economics farming energy
production
water treatment health care even
spirituality
and who are they who's behind the
curtain with these big
banks the elite minority
look into the families behind this look
into the history
beneficial information in all these
areas has been suppressed and revised
in order to keep us enslaved and
dependent upon a corrupt
debt based system we can never pay off
the brainwashing
that you are suffering from now this
media propaganda
it's just taking over everybody's
psyche basically and this is exactly
what the system wants
this is exactly what they want and who
are they
who's behind the curtain with these big
banks
the federal reserve was originally
drafted as the eldridge bill but when it
came into congress they recognized
senator aldridge's name
and smelt a rat the bankers needed
better cover
they decided to send 2 million their
friends to carry the bill to quell the
suspicions of congress and renamed it
the federal reserve act
next in a textbook lesson of the seat
the bank has set out to fool the
american people through disinformation
in the newspapers of the day the bankers
screamed and protested against the new
federal reserve bill
it would ruin the banks they exclaimed
the average person
read the protesting articles of the
bankers and thought to themselves
if the bankers hate it it must be good
and then they ended up unknowingly
supporting a trojan horse
and with that a small group had complete
monopoly over the issuing and creation
of american money
the central banking model from the bank
of england and the united states has now
been put in
all countries and even consolidated
power in parts of europe as the european
central bank
or ecb this unites separate countries
under one economic policy
the only places in the world that don't
have central banks are north korea
iran and cuba in 2000 this list
suspiciously included afghanistan
iraq and libya
so in essence it is the central banks
that control our economy and the central
and commercial banking system together
that control all of our money
the difference is central banks can
create money at will while commercial
banks need
loans to create money
[Music]
so the point is here the conspiracy
theory mindset
and her attachment to some really wild
and crazy conspiracy theories that are
quite common among
raw fruitarians i mean note also her
hostility to vaccines what have you
her overall blaming of everything in the
world everything wrong in the world
she already has the mentality of blaming
on the mass media and the government
conspiring together
so this next step of her blaming
the bankers and what she repeatedly
indicates to be
just a few families who are behind the
banking system
not entirely surprising however that
argument
whenever you hear on the internet for
example from vegan
john rose it's always anti-semitic
what she's doing is playing a game of
asking the audience to fill in the
blanks
where she tells you google around you'll
figure out who i'm talking about
you'll figure out who the few families
are
who throughout the whole history of
europe have controlled the banks
who set up this whole system that she
believes is some kind of conspiracy to
impoverish people and make them chase
debt and so-called fictional money their
whole life she says all this stuff
she uses all of the key terms that again
either have to come from right-wing
libertarian
nut cases or frankly neo-nazis nobody
else engages in this discourse
research and educate yourself who's
behind the
curtain with these big banks and she
then says you go ahead and google it
don't trust the mainstream media don't
trust me stream social media you google
around and figure out who it is she's
talking about
again a neo-nazi like john rose plays
exactly the same game
that sick group of people the powers
that be who control the media
it's obvious governments lie official
version can't be trusted
history books are buck bunk history
books
really the banana girls theory is voiced
on the internet
by many crackpots and not all of them
are racist
but people even with the best of
intentions
become part of one of these internet
conspiracy subcultures
without even realizing that's what
they're doing they start to regard
really extreme and easily falsifiable
claims
for example from anti-vaxxers people
against vaccines
they start to regard those as scientific
truth and then when they're confronted
with real scientific facts
they dismiss that as being a product of
the media being controlled by a
conspiracy
right that's how anti-vaxxers think well
something similar happened with philly
the banana girl
who convinced herself about a whole lot
of really extreme and wacky health
claims
and then whenever she saw scientific
facts or reports in newspapers and that
contradicted those health claims
oh well the contradictory evidence is
produced by a conspiracy that's trying
to keep us down
it's not surprising she took another
step into madness
understanding economics and politics in
terms of this
vast conspiracy that is at all times
trying to suppress
her view of the world in conclusion
if you were to ask me straight up is
freely
anti-semitic my answer is yes
you